# Lotus Engine

A Vulkan based renderer made for learning purposes.



## Structure

### Engine

The engine consists of a single static library called Fancy-Engine, all its code is inside the ```Source``` folder. 

### Tests

There are tests inside the ```Tests``` folder, the tests are divided into visual (```Visual``` folder) tests and unit tests using GTest (TODO).

### Examples

You can find examples showing most of the functionalities of the engine in the ```Examples``` folder.


## Setup

If you want to have the project in your device:

- Clone the project
- Update the third party modules with ```git submodule update --init```


## Building

This project uses [CMake](https://cmake.org/) for generating the compilation setup, there is a ```CMakePresets.json``` file for different presets that might be useful for you, so you might call ```cmake --preset=${PRESET_NAME}```. The defined presets are:

- ```default```: Assumes there is no extra configuration needed. Output files go to the ```Build``` folder.
- ```vcpkg```: Assumes you have [vcpkg](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg) installed for the necessary packages and tells CMake about that. Output files go to the ```Build``` folder.

There is also a Makefile (TODO) for less verbose calls (you might want to use ```make.bat``` for Windows), the make commands are the following:

- ```make ${PRESET_NAME}```: Calls ```cmake --preset=${PRESET_NAME}```.
- ```make clean```: Cleans the ```Build``` folder.

If you don't use CMake, you will need to manually compile the necessary files in order for everything to work, which is not recommended. 

### Packages

This repository includes necessary packages as [glfw](https://github.com/glfw/glfw) or [glm](https://github.com/g-truc/glm) as submodules, so you don't need to have them installed in your computer. However, you do need to have installed the following packages:

- Vulkan ([VulkanSDK](https://vulkan.lunarg.com/) for Windows).

CMake should be able to find your computer packages with ```find_package```, if that's not the case, you will need to manually tell CMake where to find them. If you are using ```vcpkg``` as a package manager, just use the ```vcpkg``` CMake preset mentioned before.

## Compiling

### Windows - Visual Studio

Just open the solution (```Fancy-Engine.sln```) generated by CMake and use the Visual Studio GUI to compile the library and executables.


## Running

### Windows - Visual Studio

Just as with the compiling step, use the Visual Studio GUI.